Rough draft of chapter 11 (#117)
merely-useful/r-rse: chapters/11-version-control-workflow.Rmd

> # Collaborating by using GitHub {#github-collaboration}

Author: Sounds good to me! I renamed the next header to be "Collaboration the GitHub way"

repo -> new_branch -> pr -> accepted -> repo
}")
```

For fork-based workflows, the steps are to:

1. Create a fork of the main repository (if it hasn't been forked already).
1. Optionally but strongly recommended, create a new branch in the forked repository.
1. Make edits and changes to the files and commit to the branch.
1. When ready, submit a pull request. Changes may be requested, which require going
back to step 3.
1. If the pull request gets accepted and merged, the main branch in the main
repository is now updated and the new branch in the forked repository can be
deleted.
1. The forked repository now needs to be synchronized with the main repository.

```{r fig-git-collaborative-workflow-forks, eval=FALSE}
DiagrammeR::grViz("digraph {
sami_repo -> amira_fork -> amira_new_branch -> pr_to_sami_repo -> 
    pr_accepted -> sami_repo -> synch -> amira_fork
}")
```

The main differences between using a non-forked-based approach compared to a
forked-based approach is determined by whether you have access to modify ("write
permissions") the main repository. Usually if you are in a team, you have
permissions to modify and save ("write") changes to the main repository,

> so in that case you would use a non-forked-based approach.

Author: Depends on the project, team size, and competences I think. It can be a bit easier administratively to manage the project when using the branches rather than forks. But its really whatever the contributor feels comfortable with.

4. While browsing a website for an R package, you find a few typos and decide to
fix it for them. Which of the above approaches would you use?

## Securing your GitHub

<!-- This section won't be a code along, maybe reading activity? -->

TODO: This section might be moved up to the solo section, since that is when GitHub is first used... or moved to appendix... Not sure how much I like that idea tho.

Any interaction with the Internet carries some risk to malicious activities and
threats. This is no different when using GitHub. Considering that most if not
all of your Git repositories will (now or eventually) be on GitHub, keep them
secured is a vital step when working online. Not only is it something that
should be done, but many usethis functions require these security features to be
set up in order to work. Thankfully making your GitHub account secure is a
fairly straightforward task and is made easier by the usethis functions
`gh_token_help()` and `create_github_token()`.
The usethis package website also has a really 
[well written guide][usethis-git-credentials] on setting it up.
Their (and our) basic recommendation is to:

> - Use HTTPS with your GitHub TODO: explain this a bit more (e.g. vs SSH).

Reviewer: This is news to me, so I would definitely like to see more info about it!

generate random and long passwords that you don't have to remember.
- Use packages like [gitcreds][pkg-gitcreds] to give usethis access to the PAT
and to interact with your GitHub repositories. You normally would have to
use gitcreds every time you restart your computer or after a certain period of
time.
- Don't save your PAT in plain text files like `.Renviron` (which is/was often
done). Plain text files can be read by anyone, meaning there is a chance that
if someone got access to your computer either remotely or physically, they would
be able to easily see your PAT and use it. Passwords or any token should not
be stored in plain text files.

TODO: gitcreds might be phased out in favor of credientials (https://docs.ropensci.org/credentials/reference/set_github_pat.html) as explained here: https://usethis.r-lib.org/articles/articles/git-credentials.html#ongoing-pat-maintenance

[pkg-gitcreds]: https://gitcreds.r-lib.org/
[usethis-git-credentials]: https://usethis.r-lib.org/articles/articles/git-credentials.html

These are some of the many ways of securing your GitHub and repositories. In
Chapter \ref(team-package-dev) we will cover more ways that you can improve

> security of your GitHub repositories, especially within a team setting.
> For now, we will expand more on these recommendations and define these new terms. Firstly, 2FA is 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
security of your GitHub repositories, especially within a team setting.
```

bottom called "Generate token" and you'll have a very long string generated
for you. **Save this token in your password manager**. This is the token you 
will use every time you open up RStudio and interact with GitHub through R.
You do **not** need to create a new token for each R project or package you
make, you only need to create one after your current token expires 
(typically every couple of months), if you've forgotten the token or lost it,
or if you've changed to a new computer.
In order for R recognize the token, you need to run the below code in the Console:

```{r cs-gitcreds-set, eval=FALSE}
gitcreds::gitcreds_set()
```

And then copy and paste your token into the prompt in the Console. The gitcreds
package typically saves this token for the day (it caches the token), but after
restarting you will need to run the action again. 

### Exercises: Consider your own computer security practices

TODO: Thoughts on these ones? Might be a bit provocative :P

Take some time to think about these questions and self-reflect on them.

1. Do you use a password manager? Why or why not? If not, what is it that is

> holding you back from starting to use one?

Reviewer: This is obviously very important, but is it outside the scope of the book? I suppose you have told them earlier to save their token in a password manager... not sure where I stand on this one.

Author: Hmmm, its a good question... My thought is that considering we are talking about collaboration, and collaboration on an open and public repository, security is an important consideration. I don't know how to disentangle this... I'll add a TODO item here to discuss this more eventually.

1. Why might it be important to have more security when working on a project
as part of a team? What might happen if your GitHub account or repository was

> hacked because you have poor security practices?

Reviewer: Less victim-blaming ;)
```suggestion
hacked?
```

1. How might using a PAT make it easier for you to fix a security issue?
If you didn't use a PAT when you remotely (e.g. through RStudio) access your
GitHub repositories and instead used your GitHub password, what is the danger
if someone was able to gain access to your password? Why would using a PAT make
less dangerous if someone gained access to it instead of your password?

## Simplified collaboration with usethis

> Collaborating through GitHub with forks, branches, and pull requests is
> generally pretty easy when you've learned how to do use them. But even then, 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Collaborating through GitHub with forks, branches, and pull requests becomes
easier the more you practice. But even then, 
```

you'd use. The usethis PR helpers are largely designed to help with scenarios
that involve either contributors to your project, you contributing to someone
else's project, or working within a team setting. You can also use these helpers
as a solo developer, but they are designed specifically for multi-person
contributing.

There are two roles that can be taken in these scenarios: The contributor and
the maintainer. If you are working solo, you would be the maintainer, but you'd
likely not use these helper functions if you work *entirely* solo and never
contribute at all to other R projects. Being a contributor would be when you
modify content on the repository in some way through pull requests. Being a
maintainer would be to review contributions from others in the pull requests.

### Workflow as a contributor

In general, the usethis PR helper functions can be grouped into a few categories
or "phases" of the workflow based on your role as a **contributor**, which are
listed below. This list of helper functions might feel overwhelming, but we will
cover them slowly and, as with Git commands, you'll get plenty of practice using
them especially in your team project.

> 1. Starting a contributing and submitting a pull request:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Starting a contribution and submitting a pull request:
```
